the problem is somatic chain
multiplication in this video I'll
explain you what is matrix
multiplication problem then what does it
mean by Mattox much change
multiplication then I will show how to
solve this by applying dynamic
programming then we will come up with
the formula that is used for solving
this problem and also I will discuss the
time complexity so let us start with
matrix multiplication first of all if
you have matrix 2 matrices and you want
to multiply them and their dimensions
are suppose Phi cross 4 and 4 cross 3
the condition for multiplying two
matrices the number of columns of the
first matrix should be equal to number
of rows of second Matrix then only
multiplication can be done if I write
other way B cross a then their
dimensions 4 cross 3 and Phi cross 4
will be there they cannot be multiplied
because these are not same so a cross B
is fit is possible then B cross a is
also possible it's not necessary when
you multiply the resultant matrix will
be C and the dimension of that resultant
matrix will be Phi cross 3 number of
rows of first one and number of columns
of last one by cross 3 so it means how
many elements will be there so 15
elements will be there then for getting
each element what we are supposed to do
multiply first row with first column so
how many elements first row will have
four elements and this will also have
four elements that is 4 you can see so
total four multiplications I have to do
for getting this one single element then
again first row with second column I get
this element so it means for getting
each element of the same matrix I have
to make four multiplications so this is
into four so finally it is like this 5
into 3 into 4 this is 16 so it means for
generating the C matrix I have to make
60 multiplications 5 4 3 60
multiplications
quite right so this about the cost of
multiplying two matrices depends on the
number of multiplications that you are
performing so how to obtain the number
of multiplication this or we can find
out the number of multiplications now
coming to the problem here for medicines
are given and the dimensions are given
they are arranged such that they can be
multiplied because these are same you
see and the 6x is same 2 2 is same so
they can be multiplied but the question
is not to multiply and get the answer no
we don't want the answer for multiplying
I cannot multiply all of them together I
have to take a pair at a time and
multiply so the question is which
parachutes select such that the total
cost of multiplying all of them is
minimum so the problem is not to
multiply them the problem is to know how
to multiply them this is matrix
multiplication problem it means how I
should parenthesize them shall I do it
like this a 1 is multiplied with a 2 and
that result is multiplied with a 3 and
that result is multiplied with a 4 shall
we do it like this or a 1 and a 2 are
multiplied and separately a 3 and a 4
are multiplied then their results are
multiplied together which method I
should follow see like this how many
possibilities are there there are many
ways I can parenthesize them so let me
know total how many ways are there so if
I show this in the form of a tree a 1 is
multiplied with a 2 then a 3 is
multiplied with a 4 then their results
are multiplied so it is forming like a
tree right if you see this is forming
like tree with how many nodes three
nodes because there are three
multiplications out of four mattresses
so three knows we are getting so for
this one if I represent then this is a 1
is multiplied with a 2 and that result
is multiplied with a 3 and that result
is multiplied with a 4 see this is
representing that pattern that tree is
representing this parenthesis ation so
like this
three nodes how many different trees are
possible so it means how many different
parenthesize Asians are possible see
four unknowns - n c n by n plus one
binary trees are possible now for three
nodes how many it will be if I
substitute three here then I get answer
five so it means these matrices can be
multiplied in five different ways five
different ways they can be parenthesized
which one I want I want minimum so shall
I try all five and calculate their total
cost and pick up the best one no I don't
have to do it like this no doubt I have
to try all possible five but I will
follow easy method that is given by
dynamic programming so dynamic
programming says that you try out all
possibilities and pick up the best one
so how to try all possibilities it is
difficult for every problem even they
may be missing some possibility also so
without missing anything how to get the
perfect answer by trying all
possibilities now we will see how to
solve this problem let us solve this
problem using dynamic programming as a
dynamic programming uses tabulation
method so these are the tables I have I
will call this with named M and this
with named s any name you can give M as
the name I have taken now we will fill
up this table and in tabulation method
will follow bottom of approach we should
take the smaller values and fill the
table first so actually we are talking
about multiplication so let us take just
a 1 not multiplied with anything just a
1 so what is the cost of multiplication
it's not multiplied with anything so the
cost of zero so when I say a 1 so let me
call it as M of 1 comma 1 so M of 1
comma 1 is 0 then if I take a 2 just a 2
then this will be M of 2 comma 2 and
there is nothing multiplied so this is
also 0 same way M of 3 comma 3 0 4 comma
for you see so this is small problem let
us find out M of 1 comma 2 M of 1 comma
2 means I am multiplying two matrices
that is 1 2 2 so a 1 with a 2 then what
are the dimensions of a 1 5 4 and
dimensions of a 2 4 6 so what will the
total cost of multiplication 5 into 4
into 6 this is 120 so I am off 1 comma 2
that is multiplying this pair of
matrixes 120 so here I write 1 2 in the
first value and for this one with the
two I multiplied so I will take it as 1
so at same 1 comma 2 I will write it as
1 why I am writing that I will explain
after some time now next I will try a 1
2 2 is over now 2 2 3
I will select this page first I selected
this mix am selecting this after that
I'll be selecting this so 2 2 3 I will
select so M of 2 to 3 that is a 2 with a
3 what are the dimensions 4 comma 6 and
6 comma 2 4 into 6 and 6 into 2 so this
will be 48 right so 2 comma 3 M of 2
comma 3 is 48 so I am filling this
diagonally next I will be selecting a 3
4 so here I will write on M of 3 comma 4
will be multiplying these two matrices
so their dimensions are 6 2 + 2 7 right
so 6 into 2 into 7 is 84 so 3 comma 4 3
comma 4 is filled with 84 so now I have
the cost of multiplying pair of Madison
and there are different way possible I
have taken all possible pairs now to two
medicines were selected now we will
select three matrix so that is I will
find out a of 1 comma 3 and 1 comma 3
means a 1 a 2 and a 3 so when we
consider all three then there are two
possibilities one s this is multiplied
the result of this or first a1 and a2
are multiplied and their result is
multiplied by a 3 there are two
possibilities now what is the cost of
what are the name what are the
dimensions of this phi cross 4 and this
is for draw 6 6 2 & 5 4 4 6 6 2 now what
is the cost of a of one this is nothing
but m 1 comma 1 plus what is the cost of
this M 2 2 3 2 2 3 then what is the cost
of this multiplication see this is
already done we know the cost right 2
comma 3 I have written I want to know
only this multiplication just 1
multiplication so this depends on the
dimension so what are the dimensions 5 &
4 2 so 5 4 2 so the result of this will
be 4 cross 2 so 5 into 4 into 2 so this
will be 5 into 4 into 2 then what about
the site this is M of 1 comma 2 plus M
off this is just 3 so write the 3 comma
3 then plus what are the dimension see
the final dimensions of this one will be
these 2 so 5 into 6 into 2 5 into 6 into
2 now M of 1 comma 1 is how much 0 plus
M of 2 3 2 3 is 48 plus how much this is
40 then M of 1 comma 2 1 comma 2 is 120
Plus
mm of 3 3 3 comma 3 is 0 plus how much
this is 60 right
which one is minimum this is 88 and this
is 180 this is meaning so M of 1 comma 3
is 88 M of 1 comma 3 is 88 now here
there were two possibilities we have
tried this one versus this one and took
meaning amount of these two right we
have taken minimum of these two so who
has given minimum this one was this side
and 2 3 4 2 3 was that side so one has
given us the result so for this value I
should write 1 here as I find out M of 2
comma 4 means I should select these
three so M of 2 comma 4 in this there
are 2 possibilities a 2 multiplied with
the result of this 1 or a 2 multiplied
with a 3 and the result of it a for C in
this way I am trying all possibilities
but an easy method because the result I
can get it from the table from the table
I am getting the values and I am filling
the table let us take this four six six
two two seven four six six two two seven
four six six two two seven now what is
this one this is M of 2 2 plus this side
is M of three four plus what will be the
product of this one see we will get this
as a dimension right and these two are
same so they are multiplied 4 into 6
into 7 4 into 6 into 7 then what about
this side this is M of 2 to 3 plus M off
4 to 4 plus the result of this one will
be this one and as these two are same
then final will be 4a 2
to Windows 7 so 4 into 2 into 7 let us
see how much mrs. M of 2 comma 2 2 comma
2 is 0 plus M of 3 for M of 3 comma 4 is
84 then this is 168 then M of 2 3 2 3 is
how much 48 48 plus M 4 4 is 0 plus 56
so which one is smaller
this is 252 and this is one not four
so which one is minimum one not for is
minimum so the answer for this one is 1
not 4 that is 2 comma 4 2 comma 4 is
over not for and who give this value see
this side is 2 3 and that side is 4 so
answer is 3 so 3 has given us minimum
resinate how to find out this final
value that is all 4 so we tried to then
3 at a time no 400 now M of 1 comma 4 so
now I will use the formula and show you
write use the formula M of 1 comma 4 is
minimum of M of 1 comma 1 plus M of 2
comma 4 C 1 comma 1 this side then 2 to
4 remaining
Plus what will be the cost of
multiplying them from here I will see
this is 1 and these are together 2 to 4
so this is 5 into 4 into 7 so 5 into 4
into 7 comma I have to take the minimum
this is one possibility
1 a 1 is this side and all 3 that side
so I wrote here 1 then again M off 1
comma C that time I wrote one here now I
will write 2 here so then plus M off
this will
three four so this means one two to the
side and three to four that side so two
separate plus what will be the cost of
this one five four and seven sorry five
or six and seven so 5 into 6 into
seventh then there are two more
possibilities here write em off 1c first
time 1 so decide to then next is to know
it is a 3 1 comma 3 plus M of 4 comma 4
so 1 2 3 this side and 4 that side so
this is 5 into 2 into 7 so 5 into 2 into
7 that's it so what are the
possibilities I have only 1 decide 3
that side or to this side to that side
or 3 this side and one that side so all
possibilities I have taken here I have
to find out what is the cost of this one
see this is 0 and 2 comma 4 is how much
1 not for one not for under this is 40
and this is M of 1 comma 2 is how much
120 plus 3 comma 4 is 84 plus 2 10 and 1
comma 3 is how much fun comma 3 is 88
this is 88 plus 4 comma 4 is 0 and this
one is 7 and D naught of this which
seems to be smaller this is 200 and this
is a 3 400 above and this is 158 yes
this has given us a smaller result so
the result is 158 then on what value I
got the sons are 3 so this is 3 that's
it I have filled the table right so
finally I have used the formula slowly I
have build a formula right so finally I
have
build a table not two tables already now
we need to know the answer before
knowing the answer I will write down the
formula say here if I say em off I comma
J minimum of what is this I'm off I to
some K so you can see that this was 1 so
2 then 2 then 3 then 3 and 4 so I'm off
I comma k plus M off k plus 1 comma J
this is the form - this is 1 comma 1 so
2 2 4 1 2 2 3 2 4 so 1 2 3 4 - 4 i2 k k
plus 1 to j then plus this was getting
multiplied these are getting multiplied
so how I should represent them now from
the example I will show you so if I say
this is a tension 1 then this is a
dimension 2 then this is a dimension 3
then this is a dimension 4 then this I
have to call it as a dimension 0 like
there are four mattresses for total 5
dimensions so I should start from zero
so see otherwise if I start from 1 I
will end up at 5 but the last matrix is
4 so let us start from zero dimension 0
1 2 3 4 so when I am multiplying any
matrix see when I am multiplying the
matters that is I t 2k + 1 2 change so I
should take I so if I is this matrix
then I should take this 1 I minus 1 so
this is d of I minus 1 into D of K into
D of J this is the formula now let me
follow this table the one which was
giving minimum I was writing them here
so the first topmost one what it says 3
so it means this side then this is
separate so this is one parenthesis at
the 3 this is splitted K is a 3 so 1 2 3
is this side and for that side
right no what about one two three so if
I check 1 2 3 it is 1 1 2 3 is giving 1
so 1 this side so a 1 this side then
what that side is remaining a 2 and a 3
then all the way this outer bracket was
there then a 4 that's it 2 2 3 so 2 2 3
gives us 4 2 only so there are only 2 so
let them be as it is so how it looks
like C a2 and a3 are multiplied first
and we get this result
then a1 is multiplied with a result all
right then a4 s multiplied with their
result that's how the multiplication
will be done this is a train we got of
this shape we got right so this is a
solution now let us check what is the
time complexity so actually we are
preparing a table but we are not
preparing entire table we are preparing
half of the table so also you can say n
into n plus 1 by 2 number of elements we
are generating right see this is 1 then
2 then 3 so on so n in n plus 1 or n
minus 1 also you can say because this
diagonal is all 0 so really you want to
consider or not so anyway this is going
to be N squared approximately n square
right if you want to write notation it's
n square but each element how we are
getting we are calculating all and
finding the minimum so how much time it
takes at most n so this is into n so the
time complexity of this one is n cube so
this is Theta of n cube so the time
complexity for Mattox chain
multiplication is n cube multiplying the
mattis's also in queue and solving the
parent isolation problem of mitosis is
also n cube then lastly I will show one
more thing the stable I draw it like
this
right because we are not using this
portion so first row I will write like
this this is first row right then this
is second row then this is third row and
this is fourth row
so these are rows 1 2 3 so this is 1 2 3
4 so if I say I is for row and J is for
column so these are I so I'll write I
hear right that side from that satisfy C
then these are columns so these are
columns so this is 1 2 3 4 so this are J
then what is the value here 158 and this
is 88 and 1 not 4 and 1 2048 and 84 0 0
0 0 this is how a table is prepared
instead of drawing it like this and half
unfilled or empty we can also draw it
like this
so just done is that site you get this
table